:orphan:

..  Copyright (C) Jackie Cohen.  Permission is granted to copy, distribute
    and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation
    License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
    Foundation; with Invariant Sections being Forward, Prefaces, and
    Contributor List, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of
    the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
    License".

.. highlight:: python
    :linenothreshold: 500

Activities through 4/9 
======================

* **Before class Monday 4/3:**

	* Review the :ref:`Requests and OAuth <requests_oauthlib>` chapter on a mechanical way of accessing APIs that use the OAuth 1 protocol, and discusses paging results from API requests. 
	* Review the :ref:`Importing modules<modules_chap>` chapter
	* Check out the ``twitter_info.py`` file on Canvas (Code Samples) and follow the instructions to fill it in. (You will need a Twitter account to do so. It does not have to be a real Twitter account, you could delete it after this course if you wish.) In class, you will use it!
	* Especially if you did not get to do so last week, check out this link to the documentation on the `Tweepy library <http://pythonhosted.org/tweepy/api.html#tweepy-api-twitter-api-wrapper>`_. Don't worry about understanding it all, we'll discuss in class!

* **Before class Wednesday 4/5:**

	* Review the ``tweepy_example.py`` code on Canvas.
	* Review the ``spotify_oauth_2.py`` example on Canvas. (Whether we will cover this today or later on is TBD.)
	* Come to class with questions about them, if any!
	* We will also be discussing how to structure projects.



Your assignment this week
-------------------------

This week begins the work toward your Final Project. You can see all of the instructions for your final project `HERE <https://docs.google.com/a/umich.edu/document/d/126TXyVlcyWvFcOWXrWL4Rx8WGdE4IyNdFkchGtqvXh8/edit?usp=sharing>`_. 

Submit your ``project_plan.txt`` to the Canvas assignment Final Project Plan by Sunday, April 9th, 11:59 PM.


.. note:: 

	If you have completed 10 Demonstrate Understanding assignments with credit, you have full DYU credit. However, if you missed any along the way, there are 2 more opportunities, both due on the same day. You may demonstrate understanding that you gain or reinforce while working on your final project in these, and they will be graded in the same way as the earlier DYUs.